# Migration v20

Migration guide to PrimeNG v20.

## Backwardcompatible

Form Enhancements In this iteration, all form components have been reviewed and new demos for template-driven and reactive forms have been added. During this work, limitations have been identified and resolved as well. In addition, we've introduced a new property named invalid to the form components that you may use style a component as invalid. In previous versions, form components style themselves as invalid using a built-in style like the following. This style is opinionated as it is specifally for invalid and dirty states ignoring other potential UX requirements like touched/untouched or form submit. In v20, the new invalid provides full control to highlight a component a invalid. This styling change is backward compatible, meaning the opinionated ng-invalid.ng-dirty class is still included however in future versions, it will be removed. PrimeUIX Themes PrimeUIX is a shared package between all Prime libraries, this shared approach allows PrimeTek teams to share theming and the Design team who is responsible for the Figma UI Kit to work on a single design file, which is the single source of truth. Prior to v20, PrimeNG has its own fork in default styles and for the design tokens {{ '@' }}primeng/themes package is required. With v20, PrimeNG receives the styles from {{ '@' }}primeuix/styles under the hood and the design tokens as theme presets are loaded from {{ '@' }}primeuix/themes . The components need to be adjusted to fit in the PrimeUIX theming by using the host element where applicable, as a result for the components that use host element (&lt;p-* /&gt;) as their main container, the styleClass became obselete since native class attribute is already available on the custom element. Refer to the documentation of a particular component to find out if styleClass is deprecated. All of these changes are backward compatible, {{ '@' }}primeng/themes use {{ '@' }}primeuix/themes internally, and migration is easy as replacing the dependency {{ '@' }}primeng/themes with {{ '@' }}primeuix/themes in your application.

## Breaking

Our team has put in great deal of effort while updating PrimeNG, and there are no filed breaking changes in v20.

## Deprecations

The following items are marked as deprecated. These are subject to soft deprecation, which means they are no longer recommended for use, but will remain available and will not be removed in future releases. API Deprecated Since Replacement Removal Status pTemplate v20 ng-template with a template reference variable None styleClass *(for host enabled components) v20 class None Global inputVariant v20 inputVariant None CamelCase Selectors v20 Kebab case None pButton iconPos, loadingIcon, icon and label properties v20 pButtonIcon and pButtonLabel directives None Button plain property v20 pButtonIcon and pButtonLabel directives None pButton buttonProps property v20 Use button properties directly on the element None p-button badgeClass property v20 badgeSeverity property None AutoComplete minLength property v20 minQueryLength None OrganizationChart preserveSpace property v20 Obselete property, had no use None Paginator dropdownAppendTo property v20 appendTo None Message text and escape properties v20 Content projection None Password maxLength property v20 maxlength property None TreeSelect containerStyle/containerStyleClass properties v20 style and class None Table responsiveLayout property v20 Always defaults to scroll, stack mode needs custom implementation None TreeSelect default template v20 value template None pBadge directive v20 OverlayBadge component None clearFilterIcon template of Table v20 Obsolete, not utilized. None Inplace closable property. v20 Use templating with closeCallback . None

## Overview

PrimeNG v20 is an evolution rather than a revolution compared to v18/v19 that introduced the brand new theming architecture. V20 focuses on form enhancements along with the primeuix migration for shared theming between all Prime projects including PrimeVue, PrimeReact and the upcoming projects such as PrimeUI web components. As of v20, PrimeNG has switched PrimeNG to semantic versioning, and as a result changes are iterative, with a smooth migration strategy and no breaking changes. In the future versions, same approach will be put in action and migrations will be trivial with no breaking changes.

## Removals

The list of items that were deprecated in previous releases and removed in this iteration. API Deprecated Since Replacement Status in v20 Calendar v18 DatePicker Dropdown v18 Select InputSwitch v18 ToggleSwitch OverlayPanel v18 Popover Sidebar v18 Drawer Chips v18 AutoComplete in multiple mode without typehead option TabMenu v18 Tabs without panels Steps v18 Stepper without panels Messages v18 Message InlineMessage v18 Message TabView v18 Tabs Accordion activeIndex property v18 value property Accordion headerAriaLevel property v18 AccordionHeader aria-level attribute AccordionTab v18 AccordionPanel, AccordionHeader, AccordionContent AutoComplete field property v18 optionLabel property AutoComplete itemSize property v18 virtualScrollItemSize property pDefer v18 Angular deferred views pAutoFocus autofocus property v18 Default attribute directive {{ '[pAutoFocus]="true|false"' }} Badge size property v18 badgeSize property DatePicker monthNavigator, yearNavigator, yearRange, locale properties v18 Obsolete, not utilized. Dialog positionLeft, responsive, breakpoint properties v18 Obsolete, not utilized. InputMask autoFocus property v18 autofocus property. MultiSelect checkicon template v18 headercheckboxicon and itemcheckboxicon . MultiSelect/Select baseZIndex, autoZIndex, showTransitionOptions, hideTransitionOptions v14 overlayOptions property Rating onCancel event and cancelIcon template v18 Obsolete, not utilized. MultiSelect defaultLabel property v18 placeholder property. MultiSelect/Select itemSize property v18 virtualScrollItemSize property Select autoDisplayFirst property v17 Set initial value by model instead TreeSelect showTransitionOptions, hideTransitionOptions v14 overlayOptions property Panel expandIcon and collapseIcon properties v18 headericons template StyleClass enterClass/leaveClass properties v18 enterFromClass and leaveFromClass properties Table scrollDirection property 14 Obsolete, not utilized. Table responsive property 14 An horizontal scroll is displayed for smaller screens Table/TreeTable virtualRowHeight property v18 virtualScrollItemSize property Table autoLayout property v18 Table always uses autoLayout as implementation requirement Tree virtualNodeHeight property v18 virtualScrollItemSize property

