# Migration v21

Migration guide to PrimeNG v21.

## Breaking

Beginning with PrimeNG v20, PrimeTek adopted a no-breaking-change policy for incremental major version updates. PrimeNG v21 maintains this policy with one exception: due to the deprecation of Angular's animations package in Angular v20.2, we have migrated to native CSS-based animations. Consequently, the showTransitionOptions and hideTransitionOptions properties that belong to the animations api are deprecated in v21 and no longer functional. v21 will not cause an error as the properties still exist, however your customizations will be ignored. If you currently use these properties for animation customization, please refer to the new animations documentation for the updated approach. Other than this case, v21 should be a drop-in replacement. If you face with any issues during upgrade, please report an issue using at GitHub.

## Deprecations

The following items are marked as deprecated. API Deprecated Since Replacement Removal Status showTransitionOptions v21 Native CSS animatons v22 hideTransitionOptions v21 Native CSS animatons v22 Directive PT attribute names e.g. ptInputText v21 PT suffix at the end e.g. pInputTextPT v22 contextMenuSelectionMode v21 "joint" mode will be removed in favor of the "separate". Applies to Tree, TreeTable and Table. v22

## Removals

This version contains no API removals. For a list of APIs scheduled for removal in v22, refer to the v20 deprecations section.

## Whatsnew

PrimeNG v21 represents a major advancement in PrimeTek's product vision. Key highlights of this release include: PassThrough attributes for enhanced customization. Unstyled Mode for complete styling flexibility. Modern CSS-based animations . The deprecated provideAnimationsAsync is safe to remove. Initial zoneless support for improved performance. AI-enhanced documentation for better developer experience. Notes The internal packages @primeuix/styles and @primeuix/themes should be version 2.0.2 or higher. These packages are updated automatically with a fresh install. If you encounter any issues with visuals or animations, please verify that you are using the correct versions of these packages.

